<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="Reg_SOX">
  <title>Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX)</title>
  
  <shortdesc>The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, often known as SOX, is a United States federal law enacted in 2002 that sets standards for all U.S. public company boards, management, and public accounting firms.</shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    <section id="ToPutItPlainly">
      <title>To Put It Plainly</title>
      
      <ol>
        <li>The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, commonly known as SOX, was established in 2002 in the wake of financial scandals like Enron and WorldCom, where significant accounting fraud occurred.</li>
        <li>This law applies to all publicly traded U.S. companies, including their management and accounting firms, aiming to increase transparency and protect investors.</li>
        <li>SOX sets numerous standards and requirements for company boards, management, and accounting firms. It imposes more stringent record-keeping requirements, mandates the independence of the firms that audit public companies, and establishes the  <xref href="glossary0801.dita#glossary0801/gloss_pcaob" format="dita">Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)</xref> to oversee these auditors.</li>
        
        <li>The Act was designed primarily to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures, thus fostering trust in the U.S. financial system.</li>
        <li>Failure to comply with SOX can result in severe penalties, including hefty fines and imprisonment. It holds top management accountable for the accuracy of financial information, with the CEO and CFO required to certify the financial statements.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    
    
    <section id="History">
      <title>History</title>
      <p>The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) was signed into law on July 30, 2002. Its creation came in the wake of several high-profile corporate scandals, including Enron, Tyco, and WorldCom, that severely shook investor confidence in the financial markets.</p>
      <p>These corporations, once seen as highly successful and immensely profitable, imploded spectacularly following revelations of extensive accounting fraud. In the case of Enron, once the seventh largest corporation in the U.S., the fallout was dramatic - employees lost their jobs and their retirement savings, investors lost billions, and trust in the corporate world was deeply shaken.</p>
      <p>In response to these scandals, U.S. Senator Paul Sarbanes and U.S. Representative Michael Oxley introduced legislation aimed at improving corporate governance and accountability. This legislation, known as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, was designed to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures and holding CEOs and CFOs accountable for the financial statements of their companies.</p>
    </section>
    
    
    <section id="ReasonForCreation">
      <title>Reason for Creation</title>
      <p>The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) was enacted in response to a series of high-profile corporate and accounting scandals in the early 2000s, including those involving companies like Enron, WorldCom, and Tyco. These scandals, which led to significant financial losses for investors and decreased public trust in the stock market, exposed various kinds of accounting fraud and corporate malfeasance.</p>
      <p>SOX was designed to address these issues by increasing transparency in corporate governance and accounting, enhancing the accuracy of financial reporting, and establishing new or enhanced standards for all U.S. public company boards, management, and public accounting firms. The aim was to protect investors and restore trust in the financial markets.</p>
      <p>Some of the key provisions of the act include stricter rules for financial disclosures from corporations, increased accountability for corporate executives, greater independence for company auditors, and stiffer penalties for corporate and accounting fraud.</p>
      <p>In essence, SOX aimed to reduce the possibility of corporate fraud by enhancing corporate responsibility, improving financial disclosures, and combatting corporate and accounting fraud. The law provides a more robust regulatory framework for corporate governance and aims to restore and maintain investor confidence in the stock market.</p>
    </section>
    
    
    <section id="Impact">
      <title>Consumer and Business Impact</title>
      <p>The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has had a significant impact on corporate governance, particularly for publicly traded companies. The provisions of SOX have implications for both businesses and indirectly, consumers.</p>
      
      <p>Here are some of the major impacts:</p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p><b>Corporate Transparency:</b> SOX requires greater transparency in financial reporting, leading to a higher level of confidence and trust for investors and the public. Companies must now disclose more information about their financial situation, making it easier for investors and consumers to make informed decisions.</p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <p><b>Accountability of Executives:</b> SOX holds corporate executives accountable for the accuracy of financial statements. Executives must personally attest to the accuracy of their company's financial reports, making corporate governance more robust and decreasing the chances of financial fraud.</p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <p><b>Independent Audits:</b> SOX mandates more independence for external auditors. This means the audits are more reliable, as they are less likely to be influenced by the companies they are auditing.</p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
          <p><b>Penalties for Fraud:</b> SOX imposes severe penalties for fraudulent financial activity, which has led to a decrease in corporate fraud cases. This serves as a strong deterrent for corporations and ensures a more trustworthy business environment for consumers.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      
      <p>These changes have led to increased confidence and trust in corporate governance and financial reporting. However, they have also resulted in increased costs for companies, which can impact their profitability and potentially, the prices they charge consumers.</p>
    </section>
    
  </body>
</topic>
