<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /C:\Users\TheGi\Desktop\20230717.bankproject\temp\pdf-css-html5\oxygen_dita_temp?><?workdir-uri file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/temp/pdf-css-html5/oxygen_dita_temp/?><?path2project?><?path2project-uri ./?><?path2rootmap-uri ./?><?doctype-public -//OASIS//DTD LIGHTWEIGHT DITA Topic//EN?><?doctype-system topic.dtd?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xmlns:dita-ot="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/ns/201007/dita-ot" id="glossary0801" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic xdita-c) (topic hi-d) (topic h5m-d)" class="- topic/topic " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/glossary0801.dita" xtrc="topic:1;3:26" specializations="">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/glossary0801.dita" xtrc="title:1;4:10">Key Financial Terms</title>
  <body class="- topic/body " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/glossary0801.dita" xtrc="body:1;5:9">
    <p id="gloss_der" class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/derivatives_trading.dita" xtrc="p:1;6:25">
      <ph class="- topic/ph " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/derivatives_trading.dita" xtrc="ph:1;7:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/derivatives_trading.dita" xtrc="b:1;7:14">Derivatives Trading:</b></ph> This refers to the buying, selling, and management of financial contracts whose value is derived from underlying assets. These contracts, known as derivatives, can be based on various asset types, including stocks, bonds, commodities, currencies, interest rates, and market indexes. The practice of trading these derivatives on exchanges and clearing them through central clearinghouses, as required by the Act, aims to increase transparency and reduce the associated financial risks.
    </p>
    <p id="gloss_fsi" class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/financial_services_integration.dita" xtrc="p:1;6:28">
      <ph class="- topic/ph " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/financial_services_integration.dita" xtrc="ph:1;7:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/financial_services_integration.dita" xtrc="b:1;7:14">Financial Services Integration:</b></ph> This refers to the practice of a single financial institution offering a combination of different services, such as banking, insurance, and securities, to its customers. This has become possible and prevalent due to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) which allowed institutions to combine these functions. While it leads to increased competition and potentially more options for customers, it also introduces additional complexities in managing these integrated institutions and can increase the institution's overall risk profile.
    </p>
    <p id="gloss_cap" class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/capital_requirements.dita" xtrc="p:1;6:20">
      <ph class="- topic/ph " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/capital_requirements.dita" xtrc="ph:1;7:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/capital_requirements.dita" xtrc="b:1;7:14">Capital Requirements:</b></ph>These refer to the minimum amount of financial resources that banks and other financial institutions are required to have on hand by regulatory authorities. These requirements are in place to ensure that the institution can meet its obligations to its depositors and other creditors, cover operational risks, and continue operations in the event of financial loss. They act as a safeguard against financial insolvency and contribute to the stability of the financial system.
    </p>
    <p id="gloss_pcaob" class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/pcaob.dita" xtrc="p:1;6:23">
      <ph class="- topic/ph " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/pcaob.dita" xtrc="ph:1;7:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/pcaob.dita" xtrc="b:1;7:14">Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB):</b></ph> The PCAOB is a non-profit organization established by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Its purpose is to oversee the audits of public companies and other issuers, aiming to protect the interests of investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports.
    </p>
    <p id="gloss_kyc" class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/kyc.dita" xtrc="p:1;6:21">
      <ph class="- topic/ph " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/kyc.dita" xtrc="ph:1;7:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/kyc.dita" xtrc="b:1;7:14">Know Your Customer (KYC):</b></ph> Commonly referred to as KYC, this is a regulatory requirement for banks and other financial institutions. It mandates these organizations to verify the identity of their clients. This process typically involves gathering and analyzing official identification documents and financial records. The primary purpose of KYC is to prevent financial crimes such as money laundering, fraud, and identity theft.
    </p>
    <p id="gloss_set" class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/settlor.dita" xtrc="p:2;7:25">
      <ph class="- topic/ph " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/settlor.dita" xtrc="ph:1;8:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/settlor.dita" xtrc="b:1;8:14">Settlor (Oregon specific):</b></ph> In the context of the Oregon Trust Code, a settlor, also known as a grantor or trustor, refers to the individual or entity that creates a trust within Oregon. The settlor transfers legal ownership of assets to a trustee, who then manages those assets for the benefit of the trust's beneficiaries. The settlor outlines the terms of the trust, including its purpose, the powers of the trustee, and the rights of the beneficiaries, in the trust agreement.
    </p>

  </body>
</topic>