<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /C:\Users\TheGi\Desktop\20230717.bankproject\temp\pdf-css-html5\oxygen_dita_temp?><?workdir-uri file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/temp/pdf-css-html5/oxygen_dita_temp/?><?path2project?><?path2project-uri ./?><?path2rootmap-uri ./?><?doctype-public -//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN?><?doctype-system topic.dtd?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xmlns:dita-ot="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/ns/201007/dita-ot" id="Oregon_Trust_Code" audience="Oregon" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic abbrev-d) a(props deliveryTarget) (topic equation-d) (topic hazard-d) (topic hi-d) (topic indexing-d) (topic markup-d) (topic mathml-d) (topic pr-d) (topic relmgmt-d) (topic sw-d) (topic svg-d) (topic ui-d) (topic ut-d) (topic markup-d xml-d)" class="- topic/topic " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="topic:1;3:49" specializations="@props/deliveryTarget">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="title:1;4:10">Oregon Trust Code</title>
  
  <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;6:14">The Oregon Trust Code is a set of regulations that govern the creation, modification, and administration of trusts in the state of Oregon, including banking trusts.</shortdesc>
  
  <body class="- topic/body " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="body:1;8:9">
    <note type="tip" class="- topic/note " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reusables/reusable_components.dita" xtrc="note:1;6:43">The following information only pertains to individuals who open Pine Vista Bank products in the state of Oregon.</note>
    
    <section id="ToPutItPlainly" class="- topic/section " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="section:1;11:34">
      <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="title:2;12:14">To Put It Plainly</title>
      
      <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="ul:1;14:11">
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="li:1;15:13">The Oregon Trust Code, established in 2005, is designed to govern all aspects of trust administration in the state of Oregon.</li>
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="li:2;16:13">The Code covers a wide range of topics related to trusts, including their creation, modification, and termination, as well as the duties and powers of trustees and the rights of beneficiaries.</li>
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="li:3;17:13">By providing a clear and comprehensive framework for trust administration, the Oregon Trust Code aims to ensure that trustees adhere to certain standards of conduct and that the rights of beneficiaries are protected.</li>
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="li:4;18:13">For banks and other financial institutions involved in the administration of trusts, the Oregon Trust Code provides clear guidelines and standards to follow, creating obligations to beneficiaries and providing mechanisms for resolving disputes related to trusts.</li>
      </ul> 
    </section>
    
    <section id="History" class="- topic/section " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="section:2;22:27">
      <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="title:3;23:14">History</title>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:1;24:10">The Oregon Trust Code was introduced in 2005 as part of a comprehensive effort by the state of Oregon to provide clear and modern rules governing the creation and administration of trusts. The Code incorporated the vast majority of provisions of the Uniform Trust Code, a model law created by the Uniform Law Commission, thereby aligning Oregon's trust law with the laws of many other states.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:2;25:10">Over the years, the Oregon Trust Code has been revised and updated in response to emerging trends and issues in trust law, further strengthening Oregon's framework for trust administration.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section id="ReasonForCreation" class="- topic/section " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="section:3;28:37">
      <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="title:4;29:14">Reason for Creation</title>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:3;30:10">The Oregon Trust Code was created to provide a comprehensive and modern legal framework for trust administration in the state of Oregon. Prior to the Code's enactment, trust law in Oregon was based on a mix of statutes and common law, which could be unclear or outdated. The Code aimed to resolve these issues by providing clear, up-to-date rules that cover all aspects of trust administration.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:4;31:10">The Code also sought to standardize Oregon's trust law with that of other states by incorporating the majority of provisions of the Uniform Trust Code. This standardization is beneficial for trustees, beneficiaries, and attorneys who operate in multiple states.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section id="Impact" class="- topic/section " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="section:4;34:26">
      <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="title:5;35:14">Consumer and Trust Beneficiary Impact</title>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:5;36:10">The Oregon Trust Code has a significant impact on trust creators (known as 
        <xref href="glossary0801.dita#glossary0801/gloss_set" class="- topic/xref " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="xref:1;37:63" type="p"><?ditaot usertext?>"settlors"</xref>), trustees, and trust beneficiaries in Oregon. The Code provides clear rules that govern the administration of trusts, influencing both the creation of new trusts and the management of existing ones.
      </p>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:6;39:10">Here are some of the most frequently impacted areas:</p>
      
      <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="ul:2;41:11">
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="li:5;42:13">
          <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:7;43:14"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="b:1;43:17">Trust Creation:</b> The Code provides clear rules for creating a trust in Oregon. This impacts settlors, who can use these rules to ensure their trust is valid and accomplishes their intended objectives.</p>
        </li>
        
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="li:6;46:13">
          <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:8;47:14"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="b:2;47:17">Trust Administration:</b> The Code governs how trustees must administer trusts. This impacts trustees, who must follow these rules in their management of the trust, and beneficiaries, whose rights and interests are protected by the trustees' compliance with these rules.</p>
        </li>
        
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="li:7;50:13">
          <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:9;51:14"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="b:3;51:17">Dispute Resolution:</b> The Code provides mechanisms for resolving disputes over trusts. This impacts trustees and beneficiaries, who may use these mechanisms to resolve conflicts over the interpretation of the trust or the trustee's administration of the trust.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="file:/C:/Users/TheGi/Desktop/20230717.bankproject/reg_or_oregon_trust_code.dita" xtrc="p:10;55:10">While these rules can create additional obligations for trustees, they serve a critical role in protecting the rights and interests of beneficiaries and ensuring the effective administration of trusts.</p>
    </section>
    
    
  </body>
</topic>